first, we need a better multi generator for land masses, and largeones... perlin and simples and such does ok, but the biomes are small and very predicatble, we need a better way.

find out what the current lowest y= is for the world, and set it 1-2 blocks above it as where is there is nothing there,make it a new water block, see through blue, no texture file.

new generation idea flow start off with the biomes, y = 1 should be a flat layer of bedrock block...  then do the terrain generation, but all of the blocks are stone, however, depending on the biome, we can make amplified terrain.. mountains should be BIG, forest should have 3-4 block high hills, etc. then we do the 'surface' generation.. but only use blocks that would make sense for that surface area for that bioms.. .. no snow with sand (a current issue), only 'like' block, so we add atleast 1 block on top of all of the stone, say for foret, as grass, or for mountain, as a % chance to be snow, for the desert, all 1 block above the stone is 1 block of sand, etc, after that we can make negative spaces for caves and ravines... remember, if the y <=3, put water there.   after all of this, we can plan or structures one day, toens, etc or the random cave house, etc.  

so, layer 1 = bedrock flat across, layer 2 = biome, but it's all stone, but this sets the land shape pattern, layer 3 is also stone, but it's going with the biome shape, and from 3 and 2 is water block, and from there at layer 4 we can do more altitude depending on the biome generation, keep doing stone, then once that is done (remember mountains = tall!) we do a 1 block layer on top of the blocks with that biome's surface block.. sand, grass, snow, etc, and they should be logical.. no sand and snow, etc.  it would be nice to have super tall mountains, but i know that at 8x8 for a chunk, our worlds wont ever reach minecraft levels.  

base layer idea, a noise map, make a 256x256 noise map.  the catch is that each pixel in this noise map is 4096 blocks.  so this is our general, rought overworld map.  we can do the equivalent of roling a d10, on a 10, the pixel is on, or white, meaning it is land, on a 0, or off, it is water.  we can adjust the d10 number howerver, so that it isnt on a roll of a 10, but say on a roll of 8 or higher, the map generated white pixels, land.  this can be adjuststed.   after the initial noise map we can 'zoom in' to the layer map, and when we choose a start off area, we do the noise map again for that pixel, but it is for 4x 2048 in game blocks, giving that one 4096 area, a 2x2 grid of generations. we can use stochastic cellular automata for a 'close to here' randomness... make the map not a perfect square for the area.  this is just a idea i am not sure of, so we can ignore it.  another idea is to add islands inbetween the zoom where we go 4096 > 2048 > 1024 > 512 > 256 > 128 > 63 > 32 > 16 > 8 > 4 ... <-- this is where the player start at, and homepully by then, we have a big enough dialed in noise map by the initial 256x256 noise map and then do the zoom into expand the map, that it look and feels correct.    after the 1024 layer zoom, we pretty much roll a d46 for the biomes itself... numbers 1 or 2 = warm, 3 or 4 = temperate, 5 = cold, 6 = freezing, and from this point on, the other zoom in layers, 512, 256, etc, all will use this as their biome type, so if we make the biomes according to the temperture. .. 1. warm = plains, desert forest.  2. temperate = plains, forest, mountains.  3. cold = mountains, tundra, plains.  4. freezing = mountains, tundra.   in the case tht a warm area is right next to a freezing area, we make on of those areas either go from warm to temperate (so down one on the heat scale) etc.  choose the 'middle ground' for a type of transition, this should be done between every layer zoom.. again 1025, 512, 256, etc... but we dont want a perfect solid map of say, tempertate, so, we may need to adjust this some how.  but it should give us a good enough, plausable map.  basically any warm land next to a cold or freezing on it;s 4 sides, if there is 3 or 4 in a cross pattern, turns temperate on it and if there is more cold or freezing in the same cross pattern, then the warm turns temperate, pretty much the same idea, but going in the opposite direction.  when we get to thw 128 to 64 zoom layer, we need to try to 'blend' the biome edges.  when we add in the water block, we can add in a 'shore' .. a beach, for there to be sand along the map's edge, another transition for the toolkit.  when we get ot the 16 zoom in layer, we can do another white noise map for those 16 chunks, and use it as a height map or hills, or in the case of mountains, well, mountain height.  when we get to the super low 8 and 4 layer, we can do tree placement, but we have to make sure that the trees are on the ground, not in it, like how it is for the initial spawn chunk.  we can have a placeholder in the 8 or 4 zoom layer, or 16 layer, for when we want to add in large things.. rare biomes or a town or such.

this is my proposed 'zoom in' noise map idea, although cellular automa and perlin noise, wimples, wavelet, etc, woud all come in handy maybe around the 2046 layer to help set the tone, and after every noise map per zoom in layer, we could alternate, perlin / simplex / etc. 
